
                     The Forth Foundation Library (FFL)
                     ----------------------------------


The Forth Foundation Library is a general purpose forth library. It gives you
a collection of words written in (ANS) Forth, in areas such as data types,
collections, development support, interfaces and compound modules. The
library is developped with gforth and pfe.

At the moment the library is still under development. The FFL library and the 
test files are licensed under the GNU GPL.


Installation
------------

Copy the directory 'ffl' and its contents to directory where the forth
system will look for sources. 


In case of gforth the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be copied to:

/usr/local/share/gforth/site-forth 

In case of bigforth the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be copied to:

/usr/local/lib/bigforth/src

In case of pfe the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be copied to:

/usr/local/share/pfe

In case of Win32Forth the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be
copied to:

<drive>:\Program Files\Win32Forth

(with <drive> the drive where Win32 is installed, normally this is 'C', or 
in a directory that is in the search path of Win32Forth.)


If your forth only looks in the current directory for forth sources, then copy 
the directory 'ffl' and its contents to the current directory.


Configuration
-------------

The default config.fs and make.fs are for gforth. So no further copying is 
necessary for gforth.


For bigforth the config.fs and make.fs files should be copied from the
'engines/bigforth' directory to the 'ffl' directory.

For pfe the config.fs and make.fs files should be copied from the 
'engines/pfe' directory to the 'ffl' directory.

For Win32Forth the config.fs and make.fs files should be copied from the
'engines/Win32Forth' directory to the 'ffl' directory.


The next step is editing the config.fs file for system settings.


At the moment there are four system setting: 

sys.eol 

This word defines the ascii end of line as a counted string. For unix this 
is a linefeed, for dos systems it is carriage return and linefeed. You should 
change the 'sys.eol' word if the default is not correct for you. For gforth, 
bigforth and pfe the default is unix end of line, for Win32Forth the default 
is dos.


sys.bits-in-byte

This word defines the number of bits in a byte. The default is 8. If your
system uses a different number of bits in a byte, then you should change
this word.


sys.bits-in-cell

This word defines the number of bits in a cell. The default is the number of
bits in a byte multipied by the number of bytes in a cell.


sys.bits-in-char

This word defines the number of bits in a char. The default is the number of
bits in a byte multipied by the number of bytes in a char.


Testing
-------

After installing the source files the unit test sources in the 'test'
directory can be started by:


(for gforth):

gforth ffl_test.fs

(or bigforth):

bigforth ffl_test.fs

(or pfe)

pfe ffl_test.fs

(or Win32Forth)

Use 'chdir' to move to the test directory.
Remove from the 'ffl_test.fs' file the ending 'bye'.
Use 'include ffl_test.fs' to run the tests.


The program will tell you which modules are tested and if there were any
errors. If you see: 'Forth Foundation Modules Test: 0 errors in xxxx tests.'
then all went well.


Documentation
-------------

In the directory 'html' there is the HTML documentation of the library. The
file 'index.html' contains an overview of all the modules in the library. In 
the file 'words.html' all words of the libary are alphabetically listed.

On the site there is also a manual. This manual is actually a wiki, so not
only can you look for more information there, but you can also improve the
manual.


Porting to other forth systems
------------------------------

The library is developped on gforth and pfe. The intention is that only two 
files are dependant of the (ANS) forth system:

 ./ffl/config.fs
 ./ffl/make.fs

All other source files should only use ANS words or extensions that are 
present on the forth engine or are definied in the config.fs.

If you change these files to make the library work on a particular forth 
system, let me know, then I can add the changed files to the distribution. 
Also if there are any specific details concerning installation or testing 
for a particular forth system, let me know. I will add them to the README.


Bugs
----

Because the library is still beta it is not impossible that you will find 
bugs. You can send them or any suggestions to the email address which is 
listed on the site: ffl.dvoudheusden.net.

Thanks.
Dick van Oudheusden

