
                     The Forth Foundation Library (FFL)
                     ----------------------------------


The Forth Foundation Library is a general purpose forth library. It gives you
a collection of words written in (ANS) Forth, in areas such as data types,
collections, development support, interfaces and compound modules. The
library is developped with gforth.

At the moment the library is still under development. The FFL library and the 
test files are licensed under the GNU GPL.


Installation
------------

Copy the directory 'ffl' and its contents to directory where the forth
system will look for sources. 


In case of gforth the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be copied to:

/usr/local/share/gforth/site-forth 

In case of bigforth the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be copied to:

/usr/local/lib/bigforth/src

In case of pfe the 'ffl' directory (and its contents) should be copied to:

/usr/local/share/pfe


If your forth only looks in the current directory for forth sources, then copy 
the directory 'ffl' and its contents to the current directory.


Configuration
-------------

The default config.fs and make.fs are for gforth. So no further copying is 
necessary for gforth.


For bigforth the config.fs and make.fs files should be copied from the
'engines/bigforth' directory to the 'ffl' directory.


For pfe the config.fs and make.fs files should be copied from the 
'engines/pfe' directory to the 'ffl' directory.


The next step is editing the config.fs file for system settings.

At the moment there is only one system setting: the word 'sys.eol'. This word 
defines the ascii end of line as a counted string. For unix this is a linefeed,
for dos systems it is carriage return and linefeed. You should change the 'sys.eol' 
word if you work on a dos system. The default is for unix systems.


Testing
-------

After installing the source files the unit test sources in the 'test'
directory can be started by:


(for gforth):

gforth ffl_test.fs

(or bigforth):

bigforth ffl_test.fs

(or pfe)

pfe ffl_test.fs


The program will tell you which modules are tested and if there were any
errors. If you see: 'Forth Foundation Modules Test: 0 errors in xxx tests.'
then all went well.


Documentation
-------------

In the directory 'html' there is the HTML documentation of the library. The
file 'index.html' contains an overview of all the modules in the library. In 
the file 'words.html' all words of the libary are alphabetically listed.


Porting to other forth systems
------------------------------

The library is developped on gforth. The intention is that only two files
are dependant of the forth system:

 ./ffl/config.fs
 ./ffl/make.fs

All other source files should only use ANS words or extensions that are 
present on the forth engine or are definied in the config.fs.

If you change these files to make the library work on a particular forth 
system, let me know, then I can add the changed files to the distribution. 
Also if there are any specific details concerning installation or testing 
for a particular forth system, let me know. I will add them to the README.


Bugs
----

Because the library is still beta it is not impossible that you will find bugs. 
You can send them or any suggestions to the email address which is listed 
on the site: ffl.dvoudheusden.net. This is also the place for new versions, news, 
documentation etc.

Thanks.
Dick van Oudheusden

